In this video as promised we're going to start off with a quick challenge requiring you to use what
you learned in the last one.
Then we're actually going to integrate aero functions into the notes application to kick things off.
Let's go ahead and create a new script in that playground folder where you're going to work through
the challenge.
I'll call it something like three hyphen arrow challenge dot J S.
This is the script you're going to end up working with down below.
We can use control C in a shut down node Mond for the old file and we can run node mod through the new
empty one.
So node on three arrow challenge dot J S Now currently it's not going to print anything but as you start
to add code we'll start to see the output here.
Now the actual challenge is going to require you to expand on a little example I've created and we can
find that by heading over to the browser once again and going to the following You are out its links.
Dot Mead dot I O forward slash arrow hyphen challenge when you visit this U.R.L. it's going to redirect
you over to another Github Gist and right here we have the contents of this javascript file.
Let's take the entire file from the first line and to the twenty first line and bring it over to the
challenge file.
We just created.
So your job is gonna be to expand on the code we have here to get the project to actually work.
If we were to save things in its current state we can see we're getting an error down below.
Let's talk about why the goal here is to essentially fill in the blanks.
I have this tasks object and down below we are trying to use a method on that object which doesn't exist.
It's your job to actually create the method and get things working.
So big picture goal Create method to get incomplete tasks.
So this new method is going to be called get tasks to do.
You're going to define it on the tasks object and the method itself is going to return an array of all
of the tasks that are not completed.
That would include clean yard which has a completed value of false and it would include film course
which also has a completed value of faults.
The method it should not return grocery shopping since that task is already done.
So you can use filter to filter out just the tasks you want.
Now once you have that in place and you are returning the new array of just the incomplete tasks you
can go ahead and save the script to test your work.
I already have a call to the new method.
You'll be creating down below when you save the script.
You should see an array with two objects printing and it should be these two objects right here.
This first one should not show up.
Take as much time as you need to knock that out test your work when you're done come back and click
play
how'd that go.
I'm going to kick things off by defining this method.
Get tasks to do.
I'll do that right here either below or above the tasks property that already exists.
Either way would work.
I'll put it below.
Get tasks to do.
And in this case we do not want to use an arrow function since arrow functions are bad for methods.
We're gonna use a standard function like so now we just learned about the iOS 6 method definition syntax
so we can use that here.
Remember we remove the function keyword and the colon.
Defining our method like this.
Now inside of the function we can move on to Step Two and use filter to return just the in completed
tasks.
So right here I'm going to create this new Array const tasks to do and we are going to set it equal
to a new array which we'll get back from this dot tasks which is our array dot filter which is going
to allow us to filter them.
Now I wanted you to use an arrow function for this.
So that is exactly what I'm going to do.
I start with my arguments then my arrow then my curly braces and in here I want to return true when
the completed value for the task is false.
So right here I'm gonna have access to the individual task.
I'm going to return true when task dot completed is equal to False if it is false.
I want this item to stay in the new array because that's the tasks to do.
All right now that we have that in place we can go ahead and return tasks to do.
Excellent.
If we save the program hopefully things are working and down below.
I'm now seeing the results we expected.
I have clean yard and film course showing up in grocery shopping is nowhere to be found.
Now let's go ahead and make this more concise using what we learned about aero functions.
I'm going to return this array directly.
There's no need to create a variable if we're just going to return it as the next thing we do.
Right here I can save the program and we have the exact same functionality we had before.
From there we can use that shorthand syntax so remember if we have an arrow function that just returns
some result right away we can take that result and we can put it in place of the curly braces.
So I'm going to remove the curly braces and everything inside and we're gonna take task completed.
Equals equals equals false and put it right here.
So task dot completed.
Triple equals false.
Now we have the exact same functionality once again down below.
Everything is still working but we're using that shorthand arrow function syntax.
So for each task in the array this function is still getting called and the function is still returning
true.
If the task is not complete and it's still returning false if the task is complete and then we go we
have completed the challenge getting just a bit more experience working with yes 6 methods and Arrow
functions.
Now I don't typically do challenges like this where I give you code and it's your job to expand on it
but it is something I'm experimenting with.
If you like this format let me know if you thought it was more confusing than helpful.
I'd love to know that as well.
You can just send me a private message through the Udemy platform.
I'd love to hear what you think.
Now that you have a bit more experience working with these we're actually going to integrate everything
we learned into the notes application so I'm gonna close down our 2 files from the playground directory
and we're going to turn our focus to app J S and two notes dot J S where we can take advantage of both
of these.
I'm gonna collapse the playground directory and I'm going to bring us back to the notes app folder.
So from the terminal I'll use controls steed to shut down node man then C D dot dot forward slash Notes
app to go back to the notes app directory and then I'll use clear to clear the terminal output.
Now the goal for this second challenge is for you to refactor every single function in our app which
is maybe only 10.
We have functions in notes Don and ask that are indeed using that function keyword and the same thing
is true in app dot J S every single the function is using the standard function definition.
So over an app dot and J S let's talk about what I'd like you to do as I just mentioned goal refactor
all functions every single function needs to change if that function is a method you're going to use
the iOS 6 method definition syntax which is more concise now otherwise if it's not a method you're gonna
use the most concise arrow function possible.
So as an example let's look at add note when you go through this challenge add note is gonna become
an arrow function as we're not defining it directly on an object.
Now this can't take advantage of these shorthand syntax because there are plenty of statements inside
of there and that's okay.
Other functions like the one right here can indeed take that shorthand syntax into account and in that
case you would want to use it.
So just try to use the most concise syntax possible.
Step 3 test your work whenever we refactor our code we want to make sure we didn't break anything.
So none of the changes you're going to make here should change the app's functionality at all.
Run a few commands just making sure that add and remove work correctly.
All right take some time to knock this one out.
Don't forget to test things out when you're done come back and click play
Let's get to it.
I'll be starting down below with the functions in app dot J S.
These are all methods.
So we're defining a function directly on an object and in all four cases we're going to use the E yes
six shorthand syntax.
So for this function we will remove the colon and the function keyword.
And we're gonna do the same thing down below for the handler for remove.
We'll do it for the handler for list which isn't currently filled out and we'll also do it with the
handler for a read which once again is still something we'll end up building.
That's actually it for app dot J s nothing too bad here we just had a couple of functions that could
be improved.
Now we're going to move on to Step Two work in the other file and actually use aero function.
So over here let's just start from the top of the file and work down for each function.
Now get notes get notes can indeed be an arrow function.
So I'll remove the function keyword and then I'll go ahead and set up the arrow.
Now in this case yes you could have definitely used these shorthand syntax but since I personally know
we'll be adding more code to it.
I'm going to not do that for the moment but if you did that is a.
OK.
Next up we have our ad note function.
This one has plenty of statements inside of there.
There's no chance we're gonna be able to use these shorthand syntax but I can still remove the function
keyword add my arrow in and use the arrow function.
Next up we have our filter method.
So we call filter and we pass to it our callback function.
This is something that can be an arrow function and it's something that can also use that shorthand
syntax.
So one way of refactoring especially when you are newer to a concept is to duplicate the code you're
going to change then comment out a copy so you can see it as a reference.
Now we can build things up using the arrow function.
You didn't need to do this but it's just one approach that can make life a little easier.
So right here for a filter we're going to set up the argument right here in our arrow functions argument
list.
I'll call it note like we did down below then I'm going to set up my arrow and I'll notice that all
I was doing was returning a value so I can use these shorthand syntax and type that expression out right
here.
That was me checking if note dot title equals the title value passed in as the argument.
Now we have the duplicate notes variable getting generated exactly as it was before.
But using these shorter more concise syntax now is shorter and more concise isn't always a good thing.
There are examples in programming where it's nice to actually have code that's readable.
In this case though the arrow function is definitely readable if at first it seems like it's doing more
harm than good in terms of your ability to read code.
I promise that will get easier as you see it more and more down the list.
We have remove note next.
Once again can't use these shorthand syntax but I can still remove the function keyword add the arrow
in and take advantage of that.
From here we can indeed refactor the function we are passing to filter now ahead of time.
I'm just going to take the expression we were returning.
I'm gonna copy that to the clipboard so I can use it for my refactor right here.
I'll remove everything we're passing into filter and I will set up my brand new era function pasting
in this stuff I just cut out.
The only thing left to do is to set up that argument which I had called.
Note next up we keep going down the list we have save notes and we have load notes.
Both can be converted over to aero functions even though they can't use that shorthand syntax.
So right here in Arrow function then down below another arrow function.
Now in this case maybe you made the argument that because we eventually put these on an object they
should just be methods defined here.
The reason we're not doing that is because these functions weren't designed to work with any specific
object.
None of them use this.
So it's not important to maintain this in our case.
This is exactly what we're gonna do here and it's the same approach we'll take and other similar files
throughout the course.
Now the last thing to do was test our work.
So I'm going to remove the challenge comments I'm going to make sure all of my scripts are saved and
we'll head over to notes Jason to see what test data we have to work with to start let's go ahead and
remove the one note we have.
So node app J S remove passing in a value for title.
In this case the title of the one note is list.
I'm gonna go ahead and remove it by running the command.
And when do I get it seems that things work.
The notes gone and we got our message.
Now if I were to rerun it I would expect to see the error message since there are no notes and we can't
remove this one.
So remove is working.
Let's go ahead and add a note right here.
Note app dot J s ad we will pick a title for this new note.
I'll set the title equal to the string T and then we'll set up the body as well equal to the string
beat.
Now if I go ahead and run that it should add the new note to my array and it's showing up.
And if I were to rerun that command it should run the other code since a duplicate would be found.
And right here I can see that note title is taken.
So there we go.
We did some refactoring.
We made sure our refactoring didn't break anything and now we're ready to continue on to the next video.
As we start to wrap up this little demonstration project showing off what node can do.
I'm excited to get to that.
Let's jump right in to the next one.